# Crypto Terms

Atomic Swap

: An atomic swap is a cryptocurrency trade that can be executed instantaneously without the need for a third party service to facilitate the exchange.  It’s another stage in the evolution of decentralized exchange, an attempt to make trading safer, more efficient, and trustless.

Cryptocurrency Mining

: First, when computers solve these complex math problems on the Bitcoin network, they produce new bitcoin, not unlike when a mining operation extracts gold from the ground. And second, by solving computational math problems, bitcoin miners make the Bitcoin payment network trustworthy and secure, by verifying its transaction information. 

Ledger

: A ledger is the principal book or computer file for recording and totaling economic transactions measured in terms of a monetary unit of account by account type, with debits and credits in separate columns and a beginning monetary balance and ending monetary balance for each account. 

Dollar cost average

: Dollar-cost averaging (DCA) is an investment strategy in which an investor divides up the total amount to be invested across periodic purchases of a target asset in an effort to reduce the impact of volatility on the overall purchase. The purchases occur regardless of the asset's price and at regular intervals; in effect, this strategy removes much of the detailed work of attempting to time the market in order to make purchases of equities at the best prices. Dollar-cost averaging is also known as the constant dollar plan. 

Fungibility

: The property of a good or a commodity whose individual units are essentially interchangeable, and each of its parts is indistinguishable from another part

Yield Farming

: Yield farming is the process of earning a return on capital by putting it to productive use. Money markets offer the simplest way to earn reliable yields on your crypto. Liquidity pools have better yields than money markets, but there is additional market risk. Incentive schemes can sweeten the deal, giving yield farmers an added reward

Smart Contracts

: Quite simply, smart contracts are contracts that run without human intervention. 
Instead of having someone like the state enforce a contract (do what we agreed upon or I can sue you), a smart contract is a contract made of computer code with a set of agreed upon conditions that, when met, results in the contract executing automatically. Thus, there is no need for someone to enforce the contract.

Staking coins

: Simply put, staking is the process of buying and holding coins with the goal of receiving interest. It is done using a designated wallet on a network that uses the Proof of Stake consensus algorithm or some modification of it. Where staking differs from mining is in the fact that it doesn’t require a powerful machine, nor do you have to invest large sums of money to be competitive.
The more stakers there are in each coin’s blockchain, the higher the decentralization is and as a result, the network becomes more secure and provides equalized opportunities for everyone to earn an income. Some networks are hybrids and have chosen to use both Proof of Work (PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS) as ways to reach an agreement to further increase speed and security.

Hashes

: The way that users detect tampering in practice is through hashes, long strings of numbers that serve as proof of work. Put a given set of data through a hash function (bitcoin uses SHA-256), and it will only ever generate one hash. Due to the "avalanche effect," however, even a tiny change to any portion of the original data will result in a totally unrecognizable hash. Whatever the size of the original data set, the hash generated by a given function will be the same length. The hash is a one-way function: it cannot be used to obtain the original data, only to check that the data that generated the hash matches the original data. 


Proof of Work

: Proof of work describes a system that requires a not-insignificant but feasible amount of effort in order to deter frivolous or malicious uses of computing power, such as sending spam emails or launching denial of service attacks.
This explanation will focus on proof of work as it functions in the bitcoin network. Bitcoin is a digital currency that is underpinned by a kind of distributed ledger known as a "blockchain." This ledger contains a record of all bitcoin transactions, arranged in sequential "blocks," so that no user is allowed to spend any of their holdings twice. In order to prevent tampering, the ledger is public, or "distributed"; an altered version would quickly be rejected by other users. 
Generating just any hash for a set of bitcoin transactions would be trivial for a modern computer, so in order to turn the process into "work," the bitcoin network sets a certain level of "difficulty." This setting is adjusted so that a new block is "mined" – added to the blockchain by generating a valid hash – approximately every 10 minutes. 

Proof-of-stake

: Proof of Stake (PoS) concept states that a person can mine or validate block transactions according to how many coins he or she holds. This means that the more Bitcoin or altcoin owned by a miner, the more mining power he or she has. 

**Differences Between** PoS and PoW

- I already cleared there are two main ways to reach an agreement in the blockchain – Proof of Stake (PoS) and Proof of Work (PoW). Proof of Work is about showing you have done the work. In the world of blockchain work refers to solving a complex mathematical problem. Whoever solves the task first gets to decide what is included in the block.
- Proof of Stake, however, is about who has invested in the network. Unlike PoW where it’s easy to determine who validates the block – in PoS it’s a bit trickier to determine who validates the new block. Suffice to say, it’s a complicated reward algorithm that considers coins invested, time in the blockchain, total stakers in the blockchain and unfortunetly, luck is also a factor when determining who validates the block.
- Having said all that, we can also make the distinction that while Proof of Work or mining involves an active participation, Proof of Stake or staking involves a more passive participation. It is also important to note, you can only stake coins in PoS networks, but you cannot stake coins in PoW only networks.

Stable Coin

: Cryptocurrencies meant to hold stable values. For example, Tether (USDT) is a blockchain based asset meant to trade for $1 USD. Tether is a “price-stable cryptocurrency” that is “pegged” to the U.S. dollar.

### KYC

- The government has been holding financial institutions to ever higher standards when it comes to “Know Your Customer” (KYC) laws—but established finance firms don't bear that burden alone.
- KYC laws were introduced in 2001 as part of the Patriot Act, which was passed after 9/11 to provide a variety of means to deter terrorist behavior.
- The section of the Act that pertained specifically to financial transactions added requirements and enforcement policies to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 that had thus far regulated banks and other institutions. These changes had been in the works for years before 9/11, but the terrorist attacks finally provided the political momentum needed to enact them.
- Thus, Title III of the Patriot Act requires that financial institutions deliver on two requirements to comply with the stricter KYC: the Customer Identification Program (CIP) and Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
- Thus, Title III of the Patriot Act requires that financial institutions deliver on two requirements to comply with the stricter KYC: the Customer Identification Program (CIP) and Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
- **CIP** is the more straightforward of the two components, and likely more familiar.
  - To comply with CIP, a bank asks the customer for identifying information. Each bank conducts its own CIP process, so a customer may be asked for different information depending on the institution. An individual is generally asked for a driver’s license or a passport.
- The second component, **CDD**, is more nuanced.
  - In conducting due diligence, banks aim to predict the types of transactions a customer will make in order to then be able to detect anomalous (or suspicious) behavior; assign the customer a risk rating that will determine how much and how often the account is monitored; and identify customers whose risk is too great to do business with.
  - In fact, the Patriot Act doesn’t even directly specify a CDD requirement, but rather specifies that a bank is required to file a suspicious activity report if it suspects or has reason to suspect such activity. But without knowing much about its customers, a bank won’t be able to meet this requirement—hence the CDD.
